DOCS-3977 Updates the Marketplace Index Page + Adds Create a Marketplace Offering Doc Page (#15870)
DataDog/documentation: content/en/developers/marketplace/offering.md

---
title: Develop A Marketplace Offering
type: documentation
description: Learn how to develop and publish an offering on the Datadog Marketplace.
further_reading:
- link: "https://www.datadoghq.com/partner/"
  tag: "Partner Network"
  text: "Datadog Partner Network"
- link: "https://www.datadoghq.com/blog/datadog-marketplace/"
  tag: "Blog"
  text: "Expand your monitoring reach with the Datadog Marketplace"
- link: "/developers/marketplace/"
  tag: "Documentation"
  text: "Learn about the Datadog Marketplace"
---

## Overview

This page walks you through how to develop an offering on the Datadog Marketplace. If you have any questions, reach out to <a href="mailto:marketplace@datadoghq.com">marketplace@datadoghq.com</a>.

## Development process

To develop a Marketplace tile, follow these instructions below:

1. [Choose a type of offering to list](#select-an-offering).

> 2. Build an [Agent-based integration](#build-an-agent-based-integration), a [REST API-based integration](#build-a-rest-api-integration), a [Datadog App](#build-a-datadog-app), an [informational tile-only listing](#build-a-saas-license-or-professional-service-integration), or a [bi-directional data integration](#build-a-bi-directional-data-integration).

Author: ```suggestion
2. Build an [Agent-based integration](#build-an-agent-based-integration), a [REST API-based integration](#build-a-rest-api-integration), a [Datadog App](#build-a-datadog-app), an [informational tile-only listing](#build-a-saas-license-or-professional-service-offering), or a [bi-directional data integration](#build-a-bi-directional-data-integration).
```

3. [Access the Marketplace repository and set up a directory](#set-up-a-directory-and-clone-the-marketplace-repository).
4. [Install and run the Datadog Development Toolkit command](#install-and-run-the-datadog-development-toolkit).

> 5. Create an [information tile-only listing](#build-a-saas-license-or-professional-service-integration) or a [full data integration](#create-a-full-data-integration).

Author: ```suggestion
5. Create an [information tile-only listing](#build-a-saas-license-or-professional-service-offering) or a [full data integration](#create-a-full-data-integration).
```

6. [Populate the integration tile scaffolding](#populate-the-tile-scaffolding). 
7. [Open a pull request](#open-a-pull-request).
8. [Review feedback and request approval to merge the pull request and release the integration tile](#obtain-approval-to-merge). 
9. [Coordinate go-to-market opportunities with Partner Marketing](#coordinate-gtm-opportunities).

### Select an offering

A standard Marketplace integration tile appears with the following format:

{{< img src="developers/marketplace/marketplace-tile-example.png" alt="Example Marketplace tile" style="width:30%" >}}

Choose from the following offering types to create an integration tile that represents your listing on the [Datadog Marketplace][1]:

- A [Datadog Agent-based integration](#build-an-agent-based-integration)
- A [REST API integration](#build-a-rest-api-integration)
- A [Datadog App](#build-a-datadog-app)

> - A [SaaS license or subscription](#build-a-saas-license-or-professional-service-integration)

Author: ```suggestion
- A [SaaS license or subscription](#build-a-saas-license-or-professional-service-offering)
```

- [Professional services](#build-a-bi-directional-data-integration)

> ### Build an Agent-based integration

Author: ```suggestion
### Build an Agent-based integration

All Datadog integrations must be bi-directional, meaning that integrations can pull data from and push data into Datadog, except for informational tile-only listings on the Datadog Marketplace, such as a standalone SaaS license or a professional service offering. 

Integrations send the following types of data to Datadog:

- [Metrics][10]
- [Logs][11]
- [Events][12]
- [Service Checks][13]
- [Traces][14]
- [Incidents][15]
- [Security Events][16]

```

#### OpenMetrics check

An [OpenMetrics check][2] is suitable for gathering telemetry data from existing applications that expose metrics using the OpenMetrics standard.

#### Python Check

A [Python check][3] is suitable for monitoring services or products that do not expose metrics in a standard format. The Python check is used to collect telemetry data from various APIs or command line tools.

#### DogStatsD

[DogStatsD][4] is suitable for applications that already emit telemetry using the StatsD protocol. 

Datadog adds additional Datadog-specific extensions to the StatsD protocol, including the following:

- Histogram Metric Type
- Service Checks
- Events
- Tagging

For more information about Datadog Agent-based integrations, see [Introduction to Agent-based Integrations][5].

### Build a REST API integration

Use an [API integration][6] to enrich and submit data from your backend, or pull data directly out of Datadog. API integrations work well in building a connector between Datadog and another SaaS platform.
 

> Since API integrations do not use the Datadog Agent to collect data, you need to create an [informational tile-only listing](#build-a-saas-license-or-professional-service-integration) once your development work is complete.

Author: ```suggestion
Since API integrations do not use the Datadog Agent to collect data, you need to create an [informational tile-only listing](#build-a-saas-license-or-professional-service-offering) once your development work is complete.
```

> A Datadog API key is required to submit data to a Datadog API endpoint, and an application key is required to query data from Datadog or create resources on the Datadog site. Optionally, you can setup [OAuth for a data integration][7] in a Marketplace tile instead.

Author: ```suggestion
All Datadog integrations must be bi-directional, meaning that integrations can pull data from and push data into Datadog. 

Integrations send the following types of data to Datadog:

- [Metrics][10]
- [Logs][11]
- [Events][12]
- [Service Checks][13]
- [Traces][14]
- [Incidents][15]
- [Security Events][16]

A Datadog API key is required to submit data to a Datadog API endpoint, and an application key is required to query data from Datadog or create resources on the Datadog site. Optionally, you can setup [OAuth for a data integration][7] in a Marketplace tile instead.
```

### Build a Datadog App

> [Datadog Apps][5] are custom dashboard widgets that are developed in the [Datadog Developer Platform][6]. Once your Datadog App is ready to publish, you need to create an informational tile-only listing on the **Integrations** or **Marketplace** page.

Reviewer: Can we link to the tile-only listing section?

Author: ```suggestion
[Datadog Apps][5] are custom dashboard widgets that are developed in the [Datadog Developer Platform][6]. Once your Datadog App is ready to publish, you need to create an [informational tile-only listing](#build-an-information-tile-only-listing) on the **Integrations** or **Marketplace** page.
```

> [Datadog Apps][8] are custom dashboard widgets that are developed in the [Datadog Developer Platform][9]. Once your Datadog App is ready to publish, you need to create an [informational tile-only listing](#build-a-saas-license-or-professional-service-integration) on the **Integrations** or **Marketplace** page.

Author: ```suggestion
[Datadog Apps][8] are custom dashboard widgets that are developed in the [Datadog Developer Platform][9]. Once your Datadog App is ready to publish, you need to create an [informational tile-only listing](#build-a-saas-license-or-professional-service-offering) on the **Integrations** or **Marketplace** page.
```

> ### Build a SaaS license or professional service integration

Reviewer: My suggestion would be to relabel this to either 'List a SaaS license or professional service' or 'Build a SaaS license or professional service offering' since they're not really building an integration.

Author: ```suggestion
### Build a SaaS license or professional service offering
```

If you are developing an offering that does not use the Datadog Agent (such as a Datadog App, SaaS license, professional service, or an API-based integration), you only need to create an informational tile listing. These tile-only listings require Datadog users to install and configure the integration outside of Datadog, and listings for SaaS licenses and professional services do not collect any data.

> The Datadog Development Toolkit offers a command option to create tile-only scaffolding: `ddev create -t tile "<Offering Name>"`. When using this command, you only receive the files related to your tile, instead of all the files used to build a full Agent-based data integration.

Author: ```suggestion
The Datadog Development Toolkit offers a command option to create tile-only scaffolding: `ddev create -t tile "<Offering Name>"`. When using this command, you only receive the files related to your tile, instead of all the files used to build a full Agent-based integration.
```

> ### Build a bi-directional data integration

Reviewer: It's odd that this is the same weight as the headers above because all integrations should be bi-directional. Can we somehow combine this so that it applies to Agent and API based integrations?

All Datadog integrations must be bi-directional, meaning that integrations can pull data from and push data into Datadog, except for informational tile-only listings on the Datadog Marketplace, such as a standalone SaaS license or a professional service offering. 

Integrations send the following types of data to Datadog:

- [Metrics][10]
- [Logs][11]
- [Events][12]
- [Service Checks][13]
- [Traces][14]
- [Incidents][15]
- [Security Events][16]

### Set up a directory and clone the Marketplace repository

The Datadog Development Toolkit command expects you to be working in the `$HOME/dd/` directory. This is not mandatory, but working in a different directory requires additional configuration steps. To request access to the [Marketplace repository][17], see the [Marketplace documentation][18].

Once you have been granted access to the [Marketplace repository][17], create the `dd` directory and clone the `marketplace` repo by using `git clone git@github.com:DataDog/marketplace.git`. 

### Install and run the Datadog development toolkit

> The Datadog Development Toolkit command (`ddev`) allows you to create scaffolding when you are developing a data integration by generating a skeleton of your integration tile's assets and metadata.

Author: ```suggestion
The Datadog Development Toolkit command (`ddev`) allows you to create scaffolding when you are developing an integration by generating a skeleton of your integration tile's assets and metadata.
```

Then, name and activate the virtual environment with these commands:

```python
virtualenv [name of env]
source [name of env]/bin/activate
```

To install the latest released version of the Datadog Development Toolkit from [PyPI][20], run `python -m pip install --upgrade "datadog-checks-dev[cli]"`.

If you are using the Z Shell, you may need to use escaped characters by running `python -m pip install --upgrade datadog-checks-dev\[cli\]`.

To set the location of the cloned repository directory: 

```python
ddev config set marketplace [/path/to/marketplace_directory]
ddev config set repo marketplace
```

### Create an informational tile only listing

For standalone SaaS licenses, Datadog Apps, professional services, and Datadog REST API-based integrations, the Datadog Development Toolkit creates the scaffolding for an informational tile-only listing. To create the informational tile-only listing's scaffolding, run `ddev create -t tile "<Offering Name>"` in the `marketplace` directory specified above.

> ### Create a full data integration

Author: ```suggestion
### Create a full Agent-based integration
```

> To generate a complete data integration's scaffolding, run `ddev create "<Offering Name>"` from the `marketplace` directory specified above.

Author: ```suggestion
To generate a complete integration's scaffolding, run `ddev create "<Offering Name>"` from the `marketplace` directory specified above.
```

---

> title: Create A Marketplace Offering

Author: ```suggestion
title: Develop A Marketplace Offering
```

 
Since API integrations do not use the Datadog Agent to collect data, you need to create an [informational tile-only listing](#) once your development work is complete.
 
A Datadog API key is required to submit data to a Datadog API endpoint, and an application key is required to query data from Datadog or create resources on the Datadog site. Optionally, you can setup [OAuth for a data integration][5] in a Marketplace tile instead.

### Build a Datadog App

[Datadog Apps][6] are custom dashboard widgets that are developed in the [Datadog Developer Platform][7]. Once your Datadog App is ready to publish, you need to create an informational tile-only listing on the **Integrations** or **Marketplace** page.

### Build an informational tile-only listing

If you are developing an offering that does not use the Datadog Agent (such as a Datadog App, SaaS license, professional service, or an API-based integration) to collect data, you only need to create an informational tile listing. These tile-only listings require Datadog users to install and configure the integration outside of Datadog.

> The Datadog Development Toolkit offers a command option to create tile-only scaffolding: `ddev create -t tile -v2 "<Offering Name>"`. When using this command, you only receive the files related to your tile, instead of all the files used to build a full Agent-based data integration.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The Datadog Development Toolkit offers a command option to create tile-only scaffolding: `ddev create -t tile "<Offering Name>"`. When using this command, you only receive the files related to your tile, instead of all the files used to build a full Agent-based data integration.
```
v2 is no longer needed

### Create a full data integration

To generate a complete data integration's scaffolding, run `ddev create -v2 "<Offering Name>"` from the `marketplace` directory specified above.

### Populate the tile scaffolding

The `ddev` command generates a skeleton of the following folders and files belonging to your integration tile's assets.

{{% integration-assets %}}

#### README

After creating a `README.md` file, follow these instructions to complete your listing:

1. Write a description under an `## Overview` header that describes the value your offering provides to users and benefits to purchasing and installing the integration in the Datadog Marketplace (for example, out-of-the-box dashboards for more comprehensive observability, replays of user sessions, logs, alerts, and more). This information is displayed in the **Overview** tab on the integration tile.

> 2. Include all the steps to setting up your Marketplace integration under a `##Setup` header that includes information divided into H3 headings (`###`) about installing the integration using the in-app integration tile, configuring the integration with the appropriate roles and permissions in your Datadog organization, out-of-the-box Datadog features that users who purchased and installed the integration can access (such as metrics, events, monitors, logs, dashboards, and more), and uninstalling the integration.

Reviewer: Can we update this to include the uninstallation changes we're adding?

Author: Sure, I'm gonna make this into a table so it's easier to read

> 3. Specify the types of data collected by your Marketplace integration under a `##Data Collected` header that includes information divided into H3 headings (`###`) about out-of-the-box metrics, events, and service checks. You can optionally include additional types of data collected such as logs, monitors, and dashboards. If your Marketplace integration does not provide these, use the following text in that particular section: `The [Datadog Marketplace] integration does not include any [events or service checks]`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
3. Specify the types of data collected by your Marketplace integration under a `##Data Collected` header that includes information divided into H3 headings (`###`) about out-of-the-box metrics, events, and service checks. You can optionally include additional types of data collected such as logs, monitors, and dashboards. If your Marketplace integration does not provide these, please remove that particular section.
```
this is what we've been recommending to partners during our review process

4. At the end of the README, provide some contact information under a `###Support` header that includes an email to contact Support, a phone number to your company, or a link to your company's documentation or blog post.

#### Media Carousel

> Listings created with the `-v2` flag allow you to implement a media carousel of images and a video into your integration tile. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
A media carousel of images and a video is included in your integration tile. 
```
shouldn't be needed anymore since all new listings automatically have the v2 flag built in

The video must meet the following requirements:

| Video Requirements | Description                                                                           |
|--------------------|---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------|
| Type               | MP4 H.264                                                                             |
| Size               | The maximum video size is 1GB.                                                        |
| Dimensions         | The aspect ratio must be 16:9 exactly and the resolution must be 1920x1080 or higher. |
| Name               | The video file name must be `partnerName-appName.mp4`.                                |
| Video Length       | The maximum video length is 60 seconds.                                               |
| Description        | The maximum number of characters allowed is 300.                                      |

> Technology Partners can add up to eight images (seven if you are including a video) in an integration tile's  media carousel. When naming image files, do not use spaces. Instead, use underscores (`_`). 

Author: ```suggestion
Technology Partners can add up to eight images (seven if you are including a video) in an integration tile's media carousel. When naming image files, do not use spaces. Instead, use underscores (`_`). 
```

| Color Profile      | sRGB                                                                                                                                              |
| Description        | The maximum number of characters allowed is 300.                                                                                                  |

Follow this template to define the `media` object in the media carousel which includes an image, a video thumbnail, and a video:

{{< code-block lang="json" filename="manifest.json" collapsible="true" >}}
"media": [
      {
        "media_type": "image",
        "caption": "A Datadog Marketplace Integration OOTB Dashboard",
        "image_url": "images/integration_name_image_name.png"
      },
      {
        "media_type": "video",
        "caption": "A Datadog Marketplace Integration Overview Video",
        "image_url": "images/integration_name_video_thumbnail.png",
        "vimeo_id": 123456789
      },
    ],
{{< /code-block >}}

For more information, see [Integrations Assets Reference][19].

### Open a pull request

> Open a pull request that contains your integration tile's asset files (such as images, not videos) in the `marketplace` repository. Automatic tests run checks in Azure DevOps pipelines to verify that your pull request is in good shape and contains all the required content to be updated.

Reviewer: The mention of 'not videos' sounds odd. Can it be reworded? Can we also hyperlink to the marketplace repo?

Author: ```suggestion
Open a pull request that contains your integration tile's asset files (including images) in the [`marketplace` repository][16]. Automatic tests run checks in Azure DevOps pipelines to verify that your pull request is in good shape and contains all the required content to be updated.
```

To request access to the Azure DevOps pipeline, leave a comment in the pull request requesting access.

### Obtain approval to merge

Once your pull request passes all the checks, reviewers from the `Datadog/agent-integrations`, `Datadog/marketplace-review`, and `Datadog/documentation` teams provide suggestions and feedback on best practices. 

> Once you have addressed the feedback and re-requested reviews, these reviewers approve your pull request and the integration tile is enabled in your sandbox account. This allows you to validate and preview additional changes in the integation tile on the Datadog Marketplace before your pull request is merged. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Once you have addressed the feedback and re-requested reviews, these reviewers approve your pull request. Please let the Marketplace team know if you'd like to first preview the integration tile in your sandbox account. This allows you to validate and preview additional changes in the integration tile on the Datadog Marketplace before your pull request is merged. 
```
We typically ask if they'd like to preview it first. We don't always automatically do it for each partner as some like to just publish it.

### Coordinate GTM opportunities

> Once a Marketplace integration tile is live, Technology Partners can meet with Datadog's Partner Marketing team to coordinate a joint go-to-market (GTM) strategy, which includes the following:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Once a Marketplace tile is live, Technology Partners can meet with Datadog's Partner Marketing team to coordinate a joint go-to-market (GTM) strategy, which includes the following:
```

3. [Access the Marketplace repository and set up a directory](#set-up-a-directory-and-clone-the-marketplace-repository).
4. [Install and run the Datadog Development Toolkit command](#install-and-run-the-datadog-development-toolkit).
5. Create an [information tile-only listing](#create-an-informational-tile-only-listing) or a [full data integration](#create-a-full-data-integration).
6. [Populate the integration tile scaffolding](#populate-the-tile-scaffolding). 
7. [Open a pull request](#open-a-pull-request).
8. [Review feedback and request approval to merge the pull request and release the integration tile](#obtain-approval-to-merge). 
9. [Coordinate go-to-market opportunities with Partner Marketing](#coordinate-gtm-opportunities).

### Select an offering

A standard Marketplace integration tile appears with the following format:

{{< img src="developers/marketplace/marketplace-tile-example.png" alt="Example Marketplace tile" style="width:30%" >}}

Choose from the following offering types to create an integration tile that represents your listing on the [Datadog Marketplace][1]:

> - A [Datadog Agent-based integration][2]

Author: ```suggestion
- A [Datadog Agent-based integration](#build-an-agent-based-integration)
```

> - A [Datadog Agent-based integration][2])

Author: ```suggestion
- A [Datadog Agent-based integration][2]
```

To request access to the Azure DevOps pipeline, leave a comment in the pull request requesting access.

### Obtain approval to merge

Once your pull request passes all the checks, reviewers from the `Datadog/agent-integrations`, `Datadog/marketplace-review`, and `Datadog/documentation` teams provide suggestions and feedback on best practices. 

Once you have addressed the feedback and re-requested reviews, these reviewers approve your pull request and the integration tile is enabled in your sandbox account. This allows you to validate and preview additional changes in the integation tile on the Datadog Marketplace before your pull request is merged. 

### Coordinate GTM opportunities

Once a Marketplace integration tile is live, Technology Partners can meet with Datadog's Partner Marketing team to coordinate a joint go-to-market (GTM) strategy, which includes the following:

- A Datadog quote for partner press releases
- A blog post on the [Datadog Monitor][20]
- Amplification of social media posts

## Further Reading

{{< partial name="whats-next/whats-next.html" >}}

[1]: https://app.datadoghq.com/marketplace/

> [2]: (#build-an-agent-based-integration

Author: ```suggestion
```

[3]: /developers/integrations/
[4]: /api/latest/
[5]: /developers/integrations/oauth_for_data_integrations/

> [6]: /developers/datadog_app/

Author: ```suggestion
[6]: /developers/datadog_apps/
```

6. [Populate the integration tile scaffolding](#populate-the-tile-scaffolding). 
7. [Open a pull request](#open-a-pull-request).
8. [Review feedback and request approval to merge the pull request and release the integration tile](#obtain-approval-to-merge). 
9. [Coordinate go-to-market opportunities with Partner Marketing](#coordinate-gtm-opportunities).

### Select an offering

A standard Marketplace integration tile appears with the following format:

{{< img src="developers/marketplace/marketplace-tile-example.png" alt="Example Marketplace tile" style="width:30%" >}}

Choose from the following offering types to create an integration tile that represents your listing on the [Datadog Marketplace][1]:

- A [Datadog Agent-based integration](#build-an-agent-based-integration)
- A [REST API integration](#build-a-rest-api-integration)
- A [Datadog App](#build-a-datadog-app)
- [SaaS license or subscription](#build-an-informational-tile-only-listing)
- [Professional services](#build-a-bi-directional-data-integration)

### Build an Agent-based integration

> {{< tabs >}}
> {{% tab "OpenMetrics check" %}}

Author: ```suggestion
#### OpenMetrics check
```

> An [OpenMetrics check][1] is suitable for gathering telemetry data from existing applications that expose metrics using the Open Metrics standard.

Author: ```suggestion
An [OpenMetrics check][20] is suitable for gathering telemetry data from existing applications that expose metrics using the OpenMetrics standard.
```

> [1]: https://docs.datadoghq.com/developers/custom_checks/prometheus/
> {{% /tab %}}
> {{% tab "Python Check" %}}

Author: ```suggestion
#### Python Check
```

> A [Python check][1] is suitable for monitoring services or products that do not expose metrics in a standard format. The Python check is used to collect telemetry data from various APIs or command line tools.

Author: ```suggestion
A [Python check][21] is suitable for monitoring services or products that do not expose metrics in a standard format. The Python check is used to collect telemetry data from various APIs or command line tools.
```

> [1]: https://docs.datadoghq.com/developers/integrations/new_check_howto/?tab=configurationtemplate#write-the-check
> {{% /tab %}}
> {{% tab "DogStatsD" %}}

Author: ```suggestion
#### DogStatsD
```

> [DogStatsD][1] is suitable for applications that already emit telemetry using the StatsD protocol. 

Author: ```suggestion
[DogStatsD][22] is suitable for applications that already emit telemetry using the StatsD protocol. 
```

Datadog adds additional Datadog-specific extensions to the StatsD protocol, including the following:

- Histogram Metric Type
- Service Checks
- Events
- Tagging

> [1]: https://docs.datadoghq.com/developers/dogstatsd/
> {{% /tab %}}
> {{< /tabs >}}

Author: ```suggestion
```

### Coordinate GTM opportunities

Once a Marketplace tile is live, Technology Partners can meet with Datadog's Partner Marketing team to coordinate a joint go-to-market (GTM) strategy, which includes the following:

- A Datadog quote for partner press releases
- A blog post on the [Datadog Monitor][19]
- Amplification of social media posts

## Further Reading

{{< partial name="whats-next/whats-next.html" >}}

[1]: https://app.datadoghq.com/marketplace/
[2]: /developers/integrations/
[3]: /api/latest/
[4]: /developers/integrations/oauth_for_data_integrations/
[5]: /developers/datadog_apps/
[6]: https://app.datadoghq.com/apps/
[7]: /api/latest/metrics/
[8]: /api/latest/logs/
[9]: /api/latest/events/
[10]: /api/latest/service-checks/
[11]: /tracing/guide/send_traces_to_agent_by_api/
[12]: /api/latest/incidents/
[13]: /api/latest/security-monitoring/
[14]: /developers/marketplace/#request-access-to-marketplace
[15]: https://github.com/Datadog/marketplace
[16]: https://www.python.org/downloads/
[17]: https://pypi.org/project/datadog-checks-dev/
[18]: /developers/integrations/check_references/#manifest-file

> [19]: https://datadoghq.com/blog/

Author: ```suggestion
[19]: https://datadoghq.com/blog/
[20]: /developers/custom_checks/prometheus/
[21]: /developers/integrations/new_check_howto/?tab=configurationtemplate#write-the-check
[22]: /developers/dogstatsd/
```

5. Create an [information tile-only listing](#create-an-informational-tile-only-listing) or a [full data integration](#create-a-full-data-integration).
6. [Populate the integration tile scaffolding](#populate-the-tile-scaffolding). 
7. [Open a pull request](#open-a-pull-request).
8. [Review feedback and request approval to merge the pull request and release the integration tile](#obtain-approval-to-merge). 
9. [Coordinate go-to-market opportunities with Partner Marketing](#coordinate-gtm-opportunities).

### Select an offering

A standard Marketplace integration tile appears with the following format:

{{< img src="developers/marketplace/marketplace-tile-example.png" alt="Example Marketplace tile" style="width:30%" >}}

Choose from the following offering types to create an integration tile that represents your listing on the [Datadog Marketplace][1]:

- A [Datadog Agent-based integration](#build-an-agent-based-integration)
- A [REST API integration](#build-a-rest-api-integration)
- A [Datadog App](#build-a-datadog-app)
- [SaaS license or subscription](#build-an-informational-tile-only-listing)
- [Professional services](#build-a-bi-directional-data-integration)

> ### Build an Agent-based integration

Author: Unfortunately not, we can remove the tab and make these H4 sections instead!

[1]: https://docs.datadoghq.com/developers/custom_checks/prometheus/
{{% /tab %}}
{{% tab "Python Check" %}}

A [Python check][1] is suitable for monitoring services or products that do not expose metrics in a standard format. The Python check is used to collect telemetry data from various APIs or command line tools.

[1]: https://docs.datadoghq.com/developers/integrations/new_check_howto/?tab=configurationtemplate#write-the-check
{{% /tab %}}
{{% tab "DogStatsD" %}}

[DogStatsD][1] is suitable for applications that already emit telemetry using the StatsD protocol. 

Datadog adds additional Datadog-specific extensions to the StatsD protocol, including the following:

- Histogram Metric Type
- Service Checks
- Events
- Tagging

[1]: https://docs.datadoghq.com/developers/dogstatsd/
{{% /tab %}}
{{< /tabs >}}

For more information about Datadog Agent-based integrations, see [Introduction to Agent-based Integrations][2].

### Build a REST API integration

Use an [API integration][3] to enrich and submit data from your backend, or pull data directly out of Datadog. API integrations work well in building a connector between Datadog and another SaaS platform.
 

> Since API integrations do not use the Datadog Agent to collect data, you need to create an [informational tile-only listing](#) once your development work is complete.

Author: Good catch, thanks! 
```suggestion
Since API integrations do not use the Datadog Agent to collect data, you need to create an [informational tile-only listing](#build-an-informational-tile-only-listing) once your development work is complete.
```

### Build an informational tile-only listing

If you are developing an offering that does not use the Datadog Agent (such as a Datadog App, SaaS license, professional service, or an API-based integration) to collect data, you only need to create an informational tile listing. These tile-only listings require Datadog users to install and configure the integration outside of Datadog.

The Datadog Development Toolkit offers a command option to create tile-only scaffolding: `ddev create -t tile "<Offering Name>"`. When using this command, you only receive the files related to your tile, instead of all the files used to build a full Agent-based data integration.

### Build a bi-directional data integration

All Datadog integrations must be bi-directional, meaning that integrations can pull data from and push data into Datadog, except for informational tile-only listings on the Datadog Marketplace, such as a standalone SaaS license or a professional service offering. 

Integrations send the following types of data to Datadog:

- [Metrics][7]
- [Logs][8]
- [Events][9]
- [Service Checks][10]
- [Traces][11]
- [Incidents][12]
- [Security Events][13]

> For more information about requesting accessing to the Marketplace repository, see the [Marketplace documentation][14].

Author: ```suggestion
```

### Set up a directory and clone the Marketplace repository

> The Datadog Development Toolkit command expects you to be working in the `$HOME/dd/` directory. This is not mandatory, but working in a different directory requires additional configuration steps. 

Author: ```suggestion
The Datadog Development Toolkit command expects you to be working in the `$HOME/dd/` directory. This is not mandatory, but working in a different directory requires additional configuration steps. To request access to the [Marketplace repository][15], see the [Marketplace documentation][14].
```

Follow this template to define the `media` object in the media carousel which includes an image, a video thumbnail, and a video:

{{< code-block lang="json" filename="manifest.json" collapsible="true" >}}
"media": [
      {
        "media_type": "image",
        "caption": "A Datadog Marketplace Integration OOTB Dashboard",
        "image_url": "images/integration_name_image_name.png"
      },
      {
        "media_type": "video",
        "caption": "A Datadog Marketplace Integration Overview Video",
        "image_url": "images/integration_name_video_thumbnail.png",
        "vimeo_id": 123456789
      },
    ],
{{< /code-block >}}

For more information, see [Integrations Assets Reference][18].

### Open a pull request

Open a pull request that contains your integration tile's asset files (including images) in the [`marketplace` repository][15]. Automatic tests run checks in Azure DevOps pipelines to verify that your pull request is in good shape and contains all the required content to be updated.

To request access to the Azure DevOps pipeline, leave a comment in the pull request requesting access.

> ### Obtain approval to merge

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### Review Process
```
This originally sounded like the partner has the ability to merge once they get approval, which is not the case

- A [Datadog App](#datadog-apps)
- A [SaaS license or subscription](#saas-license-or-professional-service-offerings)
- [Professional services](#saas-license-or-professional-service-offerings)

### Agent-based integrations

Agent-based integrations use the Datadog Agent to collect data, and are built around Agent checks. There are three types of checks:

- An [OpenMetrics check][2] is suitable for gathering telemetry data from existing applications that expose metrics using the OpenMetrics standard.
- A [Python check][3] is suitable for monitoring services or products that do not expose metrics in a standard format. Python checks can also be used to collect telemetry data from various APIs or command line tools.
- [DogStatsD][4] is suitable for applications that already emit telemetry using the StatsD protocol.

Agent integrations are bi-directional; they pull data from, and push data into Datadog. This differentiates them from informational tile-only listings on the Datadog Marketplace, such as a standalone SaaS license or a professional service offering, which are not bi-directional.

Integrations send the following types of data to Datadog:

- [Metrics][5]

> - [Logs][6]

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- [Logs & Log Pipelines][6]
```

- [Events][7]
- [Service Checks][8]
- [Traces][9]
- [Incidents][10]
- [Security Events][11]

For more information about Datadog Agent-based integrations, see: 

- [Introduction to Agent-based Integrations][12]
- [Creating your own solution][13]

### REST API integrations

Use an [API integration][14] to enrich and submit data from your backend, or pull data directly out of Datadog. API integrations work well in building a connector between Datadog and another SaaS platform.

Since API integrations do not use the Datadog Agent to collect data, you need to create an [informational tile-only listing](#saas-license-or-professional-service-offerings) once your development work is complete.

REST API integrations must be bi-directional, meaning that the integration should be able to pull data from and push data into Datadog.

REST API Integrations send the following types of data to Datadog:

- [Metrics][5]

> - [Logs][6]

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- [Logs & Log Pipelines][6]
```

   {{< code-block lang="shell" >}}git clone git@github.com:DataDog/marketplace.git{{< /code-block >}}

## Install and configure the Datadog development toolkit

The Datadog Development Toolkit command (`ddev`) allows you to create scaffolding when you are developing an integration by generating a skeleton of your integration tile's assets and metadata.

Before you begin, make sure you meet the following prerequisites:

- [Python v3.8 or later][20]
- Docker is required if you're building an Agent-based integration
- A Python virtual environment is recommended to avoid potential environment conflicts. The instructions below use `venv`, which comes packaged with Python v3.3 and later on most operating systems.

Install and configure the development toolkit:

1. Make sure you're inside the `marketplace` directory:
   {{< code-block lang="shell" >}}cd $HOME/dd/marketplace{{< /code-block >}}

2. Set up a Python virtual environment:
   {{< code-block lang="shell" >}}
   python3 -m venv venv
   . venv/bin/activate{{< /code-block >}}

   You can exit the virtual environment at any time by running `deactivate`.

> 3. Install the [Developer Toolkit][10]:

Author: ```suggestion
3. Install the [Developer Toolkit][21]:
```

   {{< code-block lang="shell" >}}pip3 install "datadog-checks-dev[cli]"{{< /code-block >}}

   If you are using the Z Shell, you may need to use escaped characters by running `pip3 install datadog-checks-dev\[cli\]`.

4. Set `marketplace` as the default working repository:
   {{< code-block lang="shell" >}}
   ddev config set marketplace $HOME/dd/marketplace
   ddev config set repo marketplace{{< /code-block >}}

   If you used a directory other than `$HOME/dd` to clone the marketplace directory, use the following command to set your working repository:

   {{< code-block lang="shell" >}}
   ddev config set marketplace <PATH/TO/MARKETPLACE>
   ddev config set repo marketplace{{< /code-block >}}

## Populate the integration tile scaffolding

> Run the `ddev` command to generate a skeleton of the folders and files needed for your integration. The options you use with the command are different depending on what type of integration you are developing. For a full list of the files created by the `ddev` command, see [Integrations assets][21].

Author: ```suggestion
Run the `ddev` command to generate a skeleton of the folders and files needed for your integration. The options you use with the command are different depending on what type of integration you are developing. For a full list of the files created by the `ddev` command, see [Integrations assets][22].
```

Once a Marketplace tile is live, Technology Partners can meet with Datadog's Partner Marketing team to coordinate a joint go-to-market (GTM) strategy, which includes the following:

- A Datadog quote for partner press releases
- A blog post on the [Datadog Monitor][23]
- Amplification of social media posts

## Further Reading

{{< partial name="whats-next/whats-next.html" >}}

[1]: https://app.datadoghq.com/marketplace/
[2]: /developers/custom_checks/prometheus/
[3]: /developers/integrations/new_check_howto/?tab=configurationtemplate#write-the-check
[4]: /developers/dogstatsd/
[5]: /api/latest/metrics/
[6]: /logs/faq/partner_log_integration/
[7]: /api/latest/events/
[8]: /api/latest/service-checks/
[9]: /tracing/guide/send_traces_to_agent_by_api/
[10]: /api/latest/incidents/
[11]: /api/latest/security-monitoring/
[12]: /developers/integrations/
[13]: /developers/#creating-your-own-solution
[14]: /api/latest/
[15]: /developers/integrations/oauth_for_data_integrations/
[16]: /developers/datadog_apps/
[17]: https://app.datadoghq.com/apps/
[18]: https://github.com/Datadog/marketplace
[19]: /developers/marketplace/#request-access-to-marketplace
[20]: https://www.python.org/downloads/

> [21]: https://docs.datadoghq.com/developers/integrations/check_references/#manifest-file
> [22]: /developers/integrations/check_references/#manifest-file

Author: ```suggestion
[21]: https://pypi.org/project/datadog-checks-dev/
[22]: /developers/integrations/check_references/#manifest-file
```

- [Introduction to Agent-based Integrations][12]
- [Creating your own solution][13]

### REST API integrations

Use an [API integration][14] to enrich and submit data from your backend, or pull data directly out of Datadog. API integrations work well in building a connector between Datadog and another SaaS platform.

Since API integrations do not use the Datadog Agent to collect data, you need to create an [informational tile-only listing](#saas-license-or-professional-service-offerings) once your development work is complete.

REST API integrations must be bi-directional, meaning that the integration should be able to pull data from and push data into Datadog.

REST API Integrations send the following types of data to Datadog:

- [Metrics][5]
- [Logs][6]
- [Events][7]
- [Service Checks][8]
- [Traces][9]
- [Incidents][10]
- [Security Events][11]

A Datadog API key is required to submit data to a Datadog API endpoint, and an application key is required to query data from Datadog or create resources on the Datadog site. Optionally, you can setup [OAuth for an integration][15] in a Marketplace tile instead.

### Datadog Apps

> [Datadog Apps][16] are custom dashboard widgets that are developed in the [Datadog Developer Platform][17]. Once your Datadog App is ready to publish, you need to create an [informational tile-only listing](#saas-license-or-professional-service-offerings) on the **Integrations** or **Marketplace** page.

Author: ```suggestion
[Datadog Apps][16] are custom dashboard widgets that are developed in the [Datadog Developer Platform][17]. Once your Datadog App is ready to publish, you need to create an [informational tile-only listing](#saas-license-or-professional-service-offerings) on the Integrations or Marketplace page.
```

3. Once you have been granted access to the Marketplace repository, create the `dd` directory and clone the `marketplace` repo:
   {{< code-block lang="shell" >}}
   git clone git@github.com:DataDog/marketplace.git
   {{< /code-block >}}.

## Install and configure the Datadog development toolkit

The Datadog Development Toolkit command (`ddev`) allows you to create scaffolding when you are developing an integration by generating a skeleton of your integration tile's assets and metadata.

Before you begin, make sure you meet the following prerequisites:

- [Python v3.8 or later][20]
- Docker is required if you're building an Agent-based integration
- A Python virtual environment is recommended to avoid potential environment conflicts. The instructions below use `venv`, which comes packaged with Python v3.3 and later on most operating systems.

Install and configure the development toolkit:

1. Make sure you're inside the `marketplace` directory:
   {{< code-block lang="shell" >}}
   cd $HOME/dd/marketplace
   {{< /code-block >}}

2. Set up a Python virtual environment:
   {{< code-block lang="shell" >}}

>    cd $HOME/dd/integrations-extras

Reviewer 2: Ah, this is a copy-paste error. Good catch

   python3 -m venv venv
   . venv/bin/activate
   {{< /code-block >}}

   You can exit the virtual environment at any time by running `deactivate`.

> 3. Ensure the Python wheel package is installed and up-to-date:

Reviewer 2: Let's remove it from this list for now. I can add it back when I document building the integration

### README

Once you have created a `README.md` file, add the following sections as H2s (`##`) and fill out the content that is displayed in the Marketplace tile:

| Header Name | Header |
|-------------|--------|
| Overview | Write a description under an `## Overview` header that describes the value your offering provides to users and benefits to purchasing and installing the integration in the Datadog Marketplace (for example, out-of-the-box dashboards, replays of user sessions, logs, alerts, and more). <br><br>This information is displayed in the **Overview** tab on the integration tile. |
| Setup | Include all the steps to setting up your Marketplace integration that includes information divided into H3 headings (`###`). Standard topics include:<br><br>- Installing the integration using the in-app integration tile. <br>- Configuring the integration with the appropriate roles and permissions in your Datadog organization.<br>- Accessing out-of-the-box Datadog features that users who purchased and installed the integration can access (such as metrics, events, monitors, logs, dashboards, and more).<br>- Uninstalling the integration using the in-app integration tile. |

> | Data Collected  | Specify the types of data collected by your Marketplace integration that includes information about out-of-the-box metrics, events, or service checks. <br><br>You can include additional types of data collected such as logs, monitors, dashboards, and more. If your Marketplace integration does not provide any of these, you do not need to add a Data Collected section. |

Author: That's basically all of them but Data Collected, right? We state for the Data Collected one that you don't need to add one (so therefore it's not required).
